fix(prometheus): Document prometheus_server requirement for Prometheus HA deduplication (#24868)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/install-configure/prometheus-high-availability-ha.mdx

If you are using our Prometheus remote write integration in a high-availability (HA) configuration, you need to make sure your Prometheus servers aren't sending multiple copies of the same metrics to New Relic. This document describes how you can configure your remote write integration so that New Relic does not keep duplicated metrics.

<Callout variant="tip">

>   This page applies only if you run your own Prometheus servers in a high-availability configuration and forward metrics with [remote write](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration). If you don't already run Prometheus, the [Prometheus agent for Kubernetes](/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-prometheus-agent/install-prometheus-agent/) is a fully New Relic-managed alternative that doesn't require HA deduplication; see [Send Prometheus metric data to New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/) to compare your options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This page applies only if you run your own <DNT>Prometheus</DNT> servers in a high-availability configuration and forward metrics with [remote write](/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/install-configure/set-your-prometheus-remote-write-integration). If you don't already run <DNT>Prometheus</DNT>, the [Prometheus agent for Kubernetes](/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/install-configure-prometheus-agent/install-prometheus-agent/) is a fully New Relic-managed alternative that doesn't require HA deduplication; see [Send Prometheus metric data to New Relic](/docs/infrastructure/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/) to compare your options.
```

</Callout>

## Quick reference [#prometheus-labels]

New Relic deduplicates HA replicas using three values. Set all three on every replica in a high-availability cluster:

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>

>         Setting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       Values
```

      </td>

      <td>
        Prometheus external label
      </td>

      <td>
        **Unique** per replica
      </td>

      <td>
        `replica-1`, `replica-2`
      </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
      <td>
        `prometheus_server`
      </td>

      <td>
        `remote_write` URL query parameter
      </td>

      <td>
        **Same** for all replicas
      </td>

      <td>
        `prod-monitoring`
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

> **How it works:** New Relic groups replicas into one HA cluster by your account, the `prometheus` label, and the `prometheus_server` parameter. Within each group it elects a single leader (identified by `prometheus_replica`) and keeps only that replica's data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**How it works:** New Relic organizes replicas into HA clusters based on your account, the `prometheus` label, and the `prometheus_server` parameter. In each cluster, New Relic designates one replica as the leader and stores only the data from that leader. The leader is identified by the `prometheus_replica` label.
```

## Set up deduplication [#set-up]

> ### Prometheus Operator [#kubernetes-operator]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Prometheus operator [#kubernetes-operator]
```

Author: The Prometheus Operator is a proper noun which should have both words captialized https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator#prometheus-operator

### Standalone Prometheus [#standalone-prometheus]

Add the external labels to each replica's [configuration file](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/), and use an identical `remote_write` URL — including the `prometheus_server` parameter — across all replicas.

<DNT>**Replica 1**</DNT> (`prometheus.yml`)

```yml
global:
  external_labels:
    prometheus: monitoring-cluster
    prometheus_replica: replica-1

remote_write:
  - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?prometheus_server=prod-monitoring
    authorization:
      credentials: YOUR_LICENSE_KEY
```

<DNT>**Replica 2**</DNT> (`prometheus.yml`)

```yml
global:
  external_labels:
    prometheus: monitoring-cluster
    prometheus_replica: replica-2

remote_write:
  - url: https://metric-api.newrelic.com/prometheus/v1/write?prometheus_server=prod-monitoring
    authorization:
      credentials: YOUR_LICENSE_KEY
```

Only `prometheus_replica` differs between the two replicas; `prometheus` and `prometheus_server` are identical.

> ## Notes, limits, and troubleshooting [#notes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Limitation [#limitation]
```

Reviewer: Have a different heading called Limitation

> ## Notes, limits, and troubleshooting [#notes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Troubleshooting [#troubleshooting]
```

Reviewer: Have a different heading called Troubleshooting

> <Callout variant="important">

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   Keep `prometheus_server` identical across replicas. Because `prometheus_server` is part of how New Relic groups replicas, giving replicas *different* values — for example, setting it per host or per pod — places each replica in its own separate HA group. Each replica is then the sole member of its group and is always elected leader, so none of its data is dropped. The result is duplicate data in New Relic with no error or warning surfaced, because each replica looks like a healthy, standalone leader. To distinguish individual replicas in your data, use the `prometheus_replica` label instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Keep `prometheus_server` identical across replicas. Because New Relic uses `prometheus_server` to group replicas, giving replicas *different* values — for example, per host or per pod — places each in its own HA group. Each replica becomes the sole member of its group, is always elected leader, and retains all its data. The result is duplicate data in New Relic with no error or warning, since each replica appears as a healthy, standalone
  leader. To distinguish individual replicas, use the prometheus_replica label instead.
```

> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> <Callout variant="caution">

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   An account can have up to 1,500 unique Prometheus HA clusters, counted per unique combination of account, `prometheus` label, and `prometheus_server` parameter. If this limit is exceeded, data from additional HA clusters will be dropped. In such cases, New Relic generates `PrometheusHAClusterLimit` [`NrIntegrationError`](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/metric-api/troubleshoot-nrintegrationerror-events/) events. Keeping `prometheus_server` consistent across replicas also prevents a single HA group from unintentionally consuming multiple slots against this limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An account can have up to 1,500 unique <DNT>Prometheus HA</DNT> clusters, counted per unique combination of account, `prometheus label`, and `prometheus_server` parameter. Exceeding this limit causes data from additional HA clusters to be dropped, and New Relic generates `PrometheusHAClusterLimit` [`NrIntegrationError`](/docs/data-apis/ingest-apis/metric-api/troubleshoot-nrintegrationerror-events/) events. Keeping               
  `prometheus_server` consistent across replicas also prevents a single HA group from consuming multiple slots
  against this limit.
```

> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: Please all this under the new Limitation or Troubleshooting section

> <Callout variant="tip">

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   Prometheus Operator does not set `prometheus_server` — that value comes entirely from your `remoteWrite` configuration on the `Prometheus` resource. This is consistent by default when all replicas share a single `remoteWrite` block (the normal case). If you inject per-replica `remoteWrite` overrides, make sure `prometheus_server` is not varied between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <DNT>Prometheus Operator</DNT> does not set `prometheus_server` — that value comes entirely from your `remoteWrite` configuration on the `Prometheus` resource. When all replicas share a single `remoteWrite` block (the normal case)., this is consistent by default. If you inject per-replica `remoteWrite` overrides, ensure `prometheus_server` is the same across all of them.
```

> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer: Please add this under limitation or troubleshooting

> <Callout variant="tip">

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   If you still see duplicate copies of replica data, make sure you do not have [`replicaExternalLabelName` or `prometheusExternalLabelName`](https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#prometheusspec) in your Prometheus spec or chart configuration because these overrides change the label name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you still see duplicate copies of replica data, ensure you do not have [`replicaExternalLabelName` or `prometheusExternalLabelName`](https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator/blob/master/Documentation/api.md#prometheusspec) in your <DNT>Prometheus</DNT> spec or chart configuration because these overrides change the label name.
```

> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> <Callout variant="tip">

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

>   For the most consistent deduplication, keep your Prometheus `scrape_interval` at 60 seconds or less. New Relic identifies the active replica in each HA cluster from its most recently received data, and Prometheus remote write forwards new samples about once per scrape. If a cluster sends data less frequently than that, New Relic may not consistently recognize the same leader and can retain duplicated or interleaved data from more than one replica, with no error surfaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  For the most consistent deduplication, keep your <DNT>Prometheus</DNT> `scrape_interval` at 60 seconds or less. New Relic identifies the active replica in each HA cluster from its most recently received data, and <DNT>Prometheus</DNT> remote write forwards new samples about once per scrape. If a cluster sends data less frequently than that, New Relic may not consistently recognize the same leader and can retain duplicated or interleaved data from more than one replica, with no error surfaced.
```

> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
